# DeepCNN
Respository for NTU-URECA AY2020/21

**Abstract**
G-quadruplexes (G4s) are a class of DNA and RNA conformations formed in guanine-rich nucleic acid sequences which consists of guanine-tracks (G-tracts) with connecting loops and stabilized through Hoogsteen hydrogen bonding within and π-π stacking between quartets of guanines (G-tetrads). With recent advances in next-generation sequencing, a range of experimental sequencing techniques has arisen to determine the DNA secondary structure along with the sequence. However, executing experimental protocol to determine the highly probable G4s formation sequences in vast amount can be a time-consuming process. In addition, the techniques of DNA structural determination are still at the developmental stage and might lack precision. Therefore, there is a need for a computational algorithm which can accurately predict the formation of G4s in DNA. Here, we propose a novel deep learning model which based on multi-layered convolutional neural networks that can learn the characteristics of the G4s sequences and predict the formation of G4s with high propensity which outperforms other state-of-the-art algorithms. Following our algorithm, we performed motif enrichment analysis using MEME suite AME. We found that the G4s which are formed with strong propensity in vivo as compared to in vitro are enriched with protein-binding motifs.

*Keywords – G-quadruplex, machine learning, deep neural networks, bioinformatics, computational biology, transfer learning, fine-tuning*
